
Monster episode 27, a piece of evidence. And I honestly thought this episode would be about a piece of evidence about murder, But it seems like this anime, just as always, is not as straightforward and, not as predictable. And the names are precise to help you to really remember what exactly happened to each episode just by looking at its name. I feel like I can I can remember or recall events from most of the episode just by looking at its name names? And this new detective, Richard, how much time did we get to see him?

Like, was it is it second episode? Maybe 3rd, probably second. And I already feel for him, honestly. Interestingly enough, we were not thrown into his tragedy immediately. Firstly, we saw him in a way having fun.

Like, he do doing his investigation thing and as if not really caring all that much about his tragedy. So at first, we saw saw him as a person, and only then we saw him as someone miserable. That's a mistake that almost all the modern authors do. They just see us someone miserable and expect us to feel for this person. Show us how some guy, family was murdered.

And all of his young brothers were killed and, expect us to feel for it. We it to be interesting. But, obviously, it's not. Just because it's a character himself is not compelling. I mean, not only that, but it's also that we are not invested in the character.

We have nothing to do with him. But here, just above the point when we are interested in and, we we're curious what what exactly happened. We are not not exactly told immediately. And when we are growing interested to in, interested to the towards this current role, now we learn his problems more more about his problems. And, the way how all this PTSD stuff was portrayed as music, a sound with the sound affairs, work with camera light, etcetera.

It was done beautifully. And I I can't help but but what are like, how frustrating it was to do such hard work on this anime while because of the time when it was produced, you you cannot get a proper quality of the video itself because what we see what Otter said is, video with a good quality is what was artificially created by using artificial intelligence. But when it was airing, it was 2,006. Back then, many anime were done in better quality. But yet Monster was producing for, for 400 and 80 people, of fishes.

Really little just because the company that was producing it had a lot of problems with electronics as these problems were everywhere around the country. So it's a strange story. Okay? Of course, there is not a girl in the world who wouldn't be happy to see her, apparently. It's such a kind phrase.

But when this girl doesn't want to see Richard, it feels for him almost as if he doesn't want that. Like, he takes this as entirely his fault. Maybe it is, actually. But it feels tough. I, I mean, it's not as if I can relate, but somehow I do.

Somehow I feel for him. And, well, this whole parenting stuff was discussed quite a bit, during these few last episodes, especially this one. I wonder if, this girl really really decided not to see his father. Maybe she was not even told. Maybe, her mother just lied to Richards.

But it did seem like this mother cares, but at the same time, he didn't want to deal with research all that much. It's a complicated story. Okay? Once again, how the alcohol was portrayed was just masterful. How this whole temptation we we see how character struggles and yet, oversteps over his problems, over his bad habits.

Well, for some reason, it's hard for me to choose words properly this day. Jochen Liebert. I wonder why he's using his real names this time. Like, really? Because, is this is the same name that he was using back when he got that bullet into his head when Tanner saved him?

Isn't he afraid that someone would find him because he uses the same name. Or how does it work? Like, maybe he's not changing his names each time he moves. He just has a few names, and it's not as if Yohan just magically disappears. I don't know.

So probably, yes, he is pretending to be the same person he was back then many years ago. I I just found it interesting that he uses the same name because, many times we met him before in different situations. Each time he had different names. Yet, here, he uses somewhat his real name, as far as we know at least. I mean, yes, he was told that Jochen is also not his name, but it's the one that makes the most sense at the moment.

The way how he treats Carlo. I wonder, like, what kind of plan he has. Does he really care for him? I doubt about doubt about that. But it it just hard to say what is his angle.

Like, was it just to become a secretary of, Schumann? I don't think so. I believe that Jochen would be able to get that position even without, caring about Karl and just doing the whole thing. He have done so many beneficial things for Carl that so many that it even scares me. Like, what's gonna happen to overweight all this kindness that he have done?

Because when when an evil person does something good, that's what is scary. Like, maybe we'll see a good part of his personality but I doubt about that. So and Karl, this dilemma about his parents. Because on one hand, you have this couple who loves Karl. From the bottom of their heart.

They want him to be his son. And yet, there is Schubert who found out about his son that he loves him too. It's not as if you can, satisfy both of his requests. Somehow, he'll have to make a choice who is he gonna stay with. And that's traumatic, I think.

And about Schubert, I hope I pronounce his name correctly, actually. It's Schuwald. Schuwald. Schuwald. He once told that money rules over anything in this world or any other one.

And yet, even back then, many years ago, the thing he, gifted to Karl's mother was his rebel 2 legs, which is, basically a worthless thing, I mean, from perspective of money. Yet again, even back then he was volleying many things that are not is it doesn't don't have a worse in money. He is either was lying to Karl at the moment when he was saying that money rules over anything or maybe he's lying to himself, maybe he does not realize how much he actually already knows how much he he he does not realize how even right there, even while he was saying these very words, he subconsciously knew that there are so many more important things in this life. But he exchanged everything for his money, and therefore, it's hard for him to convince himself in something otherwise. So what's gonna happen?

Like, what can we expect from Johan, and what gonna happen to this, Richard Brown. I I guess that was his full name. What is going to be his role in this story? I wonder. We will find out in the next episodes, I guess.

So, one more thing. We this story arc belongs for quite a bit now, I think, for a few days already. No. For for a few episodes. There's nothing bad about it.

Because of that, we get more time to match characters and it's not as sad to just towards this series because I told that many times ago it's a sad to say goodbye to characters because there are so many great characters. And a lot of them, we meet for just one episode and then we'll probably never get go back to them again. It's just sad. But here we have our time to, you know, spend with these characters which is good and it's not as exhausting to the author because it's, I just wonder how he's able to, create all this character in such a short period of time because, as I believe the manga was airing weekly and each episode is about 2 chapters of manga. So he was making about many okay.

Many character many good characters in a really short period of time which is great. Of course, you can say that he just planned the whole story beforehand, which I think is true partly, but, still it's a lot of work and he have done a great job. So this is it for this episode.