
Monster episode 30 decision. And what this title was about? I feel like there could be a few interpretations. Maybe it was about this decision or rather about an accident of not closing the door or maybe about decision of Richard to, you know, give it a shot give it a shot this, to to this trip to America. Maybe it's about decision of Tenma to follow, Julius.

Julius. Yeah. That's the name of the doctor, and, the author just keep for just pointing me at my own words, my old words, because once, in one of my last recordings I told that, well, not not every character has to be, like, so, to to have such a great deal of depth and it's fine to have some characters that are there just for the sake of, you know, make some function. And then there is this Julius who I thought to be, not all that important, but now I care deeply care about him, which is great. The author, just as always, exceeds my expectations.

And, the way how everything is written, is on point, just as always. We saw him running because of that. We learned that actually he maybe he has some extra weight, but, recently, he's trying to lose it. Therefore, he trains, and, therefore, he was able to do these few sessions of running throughout the episode. It's a small detail, but it's a nice one.

Right? And these few reminders about closing the door. Obviously, it was obvious enough that it's gonna be important in the future, but I actually thought that the thing there would be that she would forgot to close the door and someone would kill Julius because of that. Someone would use this door and enter the room and kill a mother. But in reality it was opposite.

And it not only it just served to make some kind of function to make his, escape more realistic. Not only for that but it also worked for just getting more emotions. Because when we see the situation and everything is so tense and you not only have to think about whether he's gonna be able to run through this door, whether, Roberta is gonna chase him or shoot him before he'll be able to leave the room or after. What you have to see also is an element of luck. Like, is this door really closed?

And you can say oh man, that's an anime. Of course, it's opened. Of course, it's open. But the thing is it's monster anime, you know, so many characters, so many great characters died here. Like, take for example, Richard.

Right? So characters die here. There are real stakes and because of that it's so interesting to watch this anime. I was, kind of I was really invested into this character. I was afraid he is gonna die but he didn't at least yet.

Or this foreshadow with Tano just appearing for a couple of seconds and because of that, and it it, like, it was enough time for us to kind of forget that Tano was following, Julian. By the way, isn't it the same name as so there is Richard, a a kind of a pupil, and there is Julian. Funny funny funny. Okay. Okay.

Yeah. It was a mistake. Actually, his name is Julius, sadly, but Julius is a good name. So time appeared and because of that, it took some time and we were stressed. So, at least me, I I I forgot about Tanma.

And then when he appeared, it was not all that unexpected. It was a natural thing to happen, but because we saw him earlier we were not disappointed with this story turn, I guess. And Roberto how he appeared, well judging by description it was obvious enough that this guy who's gonna appear is going to be this big man and that Julius is getting into troubles with his husband. But I didn't expect he this guy to be Roberto and when he appears in the room you already know oh man, that's Roberto, big, troublous man, yet, they taking their sweet time to appear, for him to appear and therefore to get even more emotions because you already know yet you're guessing and, your thought because you have this thought process you get more reward, kind of, you know, because I was right even if that's a small thing and an obvious one. Also, I guess, why this doctor Julius cares all that much about, catching, Johan?

Of course, one can say that it was just a topic of interest and that, at least at first maybe that's what it was. Maybe he didn't feel feel like he was in danger up till the moment he was in an extreme danger. But maybe it's also was about just this proof of deformation thing. Maybe he, was finding Richard to be a kind of his son, you know, judging by their age. He's 20 or 30 years older than Richard, so it can do that trick quite well.

And, we don't know how much time exactly they spend together, but because of the events, I feel like it's not less than half year which is enough to get attached to someone. And at first, why did I even thought that Julius wouldn't be all that important just because I wasn't expecting things to turn out this exact way. And why was even Julius why did Julius Julius appeared to be an interesting character, I wonder? Maybe because of, once again, thought process. Because when he appeared I, had to guess whether he's good doctor or not, whether he cares or not.

Because of his trait of character I think, he has this feature of showing next to nothing in emotions in most cases. And because of that, at first, I thought, like, that he didn't care all that much about, Richard. And his, tips were kind of dry without putting too much fillings into them as if he was giving them out of some textbook. But he appeared to care all that much and even take some blame, on himself about Richard's death and, by the way, about Richard's death itself. Yeah.

I I think it was still suicide, but it was done in such a beautiful way that it was, it was almost impossible to identify whether it was or not. It could even to doctor to Julius it could look like, maybe Richard got that phone call from the daughter and he thought oh man, my life in the upstream I need to celebrate that a bit. I'll drink just a bit of alcohol. Then he drank it, got drunk and just followed fall of the building. That's the thing that, people who are addicted to alcagol could do, I I think at least.

There were there were no way to really tell what happened. And, it's another reason why Johan came with Richard up there because, well, it was a kind of a hint for, Richard what choose what way of dying he should choose. And yet I I don't well, we don't have any proofs but I I would prefer it not to be a murderer in a straight way. I would not prefer I would prefer to Richard to, you know, do the thing himself. Of course, it sounds cruel but, because of just story, how the story goes, it would be so much more painful and just impactful if Richard would do that himself and not someone would just, you know, push him out of the roof.

But we don't get to know that. And I guess this is it for this episode. I know that I just was going from one, part of the episode to another one all the time. Yeah. Yeah.

I didn't have a certain plan. I was just talking about what felt to be correct at the moment. Sorry. I don't have much time to prepare for these recordings, for these things. And also, yes, obviously, it appeared that Roberto was the one who almost killed Richard twice.

One time when this metal constructions almost fell to him and another one when some driver was about to run Richard over. And I I wonder why was this happening this way? If Johan wanted to, you know, kill to to make Richard dead, all this time, why would he try to kill him in such a boring ways as just making this to be an accident? Why didn't I mean, so what I'm leading to is that I have this theory that Roberto was doing these things, not because of the order of Johan, but by his own will. That's how I like to see these ways, the things.

But what is the reality? We don't know that. And also yeah. One more thing. Roberta shared a bit of new information about himself during this episode.

It appears that he was a murderer, a hitman, long before he met Yohan. But we didn't get to learn all that much, about why and how. But the general idea is that, yes, just as it happened with that murderer, with the doll, you know, in the episode when we mere we met, Rudy for the first time, Just as this happened with that mother, the same kind of happened with Roberto. And, yes, Roberto is doting in his typical fashion. He is so careless.

He takes his sweet time. I guess he enjoys this fear and maybe some feeling of control, like he was trying to manipulate Eva and now just to watch, Julius fighting for his life. I guess we'll see what's gonna happen with it, in the next episode, but probably he's not going to be successful. He's just stopping, if something goes wrong. He's like, okay, whatever.

And that's it for this recording.