THIS IS A BORZOI BOOK
 PUBLISHED BY
 ALFRED A. KNOPF, INC.
 ____________________________________ Copyright © 1992 by Donna Tartt
 All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions.
 Published in the United States by Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., New York, and
 simultaneously in Canada by Random House of Canada Limited, Toronto.
 Distributed by Random House, Inc., New York.
 Grateful acknowledgment is made to Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc. and Faber and
 Faber Limited for permission to reprint an excerpt from “The Fire Sermon” in “The
 Waste Land” in Collected Poems 1909–1962 by T. S. Eliot, copyright 1936 by
 Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc., copyright 1963, 1964 by T. S. Eliot. Rights outside
 the U.S. administered by Faber and Faber Limited, London. Reprinted by permission
 of the publishers.
 eISBN: 978-0-307-76569-7
 LC 92-53053
 v3.1
For Bret Easton Ellis,
 whose generosity will never cease to warm my heart;
 and for Paul Edward McGloin,
 muse and Maecenas,
 who is the dearest friend I will ever have in this world.
I enquire now as to the genesis of a philologist and assert the following:
 1. A young man cannot possibly know what Greeks and Romans are.
 2. He does not know whether he is suited for finding out about them.
 —FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE,
 Unzeitgemasse Betrachtungen
 Come then, and let us pass a leisure hour in storytelling, and our story shall
 be the education of our heroes.
 —PLATO,
 Republic, BOOK II
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
 Thanks to Binky Urban, whose dauntless efforts on behalf of this book
 leave me speechless; to Sonny Mehta, who made everything possible; to
 Gary Fisketjon il miglior fabbro; and to Garth Battista and Marie Behan,
 whose patience with me sometimes makes me want to weep.
 And—despite the risk of sounding like a Homeric catalog of ships—the
 following people must all be thanked for their aid, inspiration and love:
 Russ Dallen, Greta Edwards-Anthony, Claude Fredericks, Cheryl Gilman,
 Edna Golding, Barry Hannah, Ben Herring, Beatrice Hill, Mary Minter
 Krotzer, Antoinette Linn, Caitlin McCaffrey, Paul and Louise McGloin, Joe
 McGinniss, Mark McNairy, Willie Morris, Erin “Maxfield” Parish, Delia
 Reid, Pascale Retourner-Raab, Jim and Mary Robison, Elizabeth Seelig,
 Mark Shaw, Orianne Smith, Maura Spiegel, Richard Stilwell, Mackenzie
 Stubbins, Rebecca Tartt, Minnie Lou Thompson, Arturo Vivante, Taylor
 Weatherall, Alice Welsh, Thomas Yarker and, most of all, that dear old bad
 old Boushe family.
Contents
 Cover
 Title Page
 Copyright
 Dedication
 Epigraph
 Acknowledgments
 Prologue
 Book I
 Chapter 1
 Chapter 2
 Chapter 3
 Chapter 4
 Chapter 5
 Book II
 Chapter 6
 Chapter 7
 Chapter 8
 Epilogue
PROLOGUE
THE SNOW in the mountains was melting and Bunny had been dead for several
 weeks before we came to understand the gravity of our situation. He’d been
 dead for ten days before they found him, you know. It was one of the
 biggest manhunts in Vermont history—state troopers, the FBI, even an army
 helicopter; the college closed, the dye factory in Hampden shut down,
 people coming from New Hampshire, upstate New York, as far away as
 Boston.
 It is difficult to believe that Henry’s modest plan could have worked so
 well despite these unforeseen events. We hadn’t intended to hide the body
 where it couldn’t be found. In fact, we hadn’t hidden it at all but had simply
 left it where it fell in hopes that some luckless passer-by would stumble
 over it before anyone even noticed he was missing. This was a tale that told
 itself simply and well: the loose rocks, the body at the bottom of the ravine
 with a clean break in the neck, and the muddy skidmarks of dug-in heels
 pointing the way down; a hiking accident, no more, no less, and it might
 have been left at that, at quiet tears and a small funeral, had it not been for
 the snow that fell that night; it covered him without a trace, and ten days
 later, when the thaw finally came, the state troopers and the FBI and the
 searchers from the town all saw that they had been walking back and forth
 over his body until the snow above it was packed down like ice.
 It is difficult to believe that such an uproar took place over an act for which
 I was partially responsible, even more difficult to believe I could have
 walked through it—the cameras, the uniforms, the black crowds sprinkled
 over Mount Cataract like ants in a sugar bowl—without incurring a blink of
 suspicion. But walking through it all was one thing; walking away,
 unfortunately, has proved to be quite another, and though once I thought I
 had left that ravine forever on an April afternoon long ago, now I am not so
 sure. Now the searchers have departed, and life has grown quiet around me,
 I have come to realize that while for years I might have imagined myself to
 be somewhere else, in reality I have been there all the time: up at the top by
the muddy wheel-ruts in the new grass, where the sky is dark over the
 shivering apple blossoms and the first chill of the snow that will fall that
 night is already in the air.
 What are you doing up here? said Bunny, surprised, when he found the
 four of us waiting for him.
 Why, looking for new ferns, said Henry.
 And after we stood whispering in the underbrush—one last look at the
 body and a last look round, no dropped keys, lost glasses, everybody got
 everything?—and then started single file through the woods, I took one
 glance back through the saplings that leapt to close the path behind me.
 Though I remember the walk back and the first lonely flakes of snow that
 came drifting through the pines, remember piling gratefully into the car and
 starting down the road like a family on vacation, with Henry driving clench
jawed through the potholes and the rest of us leaning over the seats and
 talking like children, though I remember only too well the long terrible
 night that lay ahead and the long terrible days and nights that followed, I
 have only to glance over my shoulder for all those years to drop away and I
 see it behind me again, the ravine, rising all green and black through the
 saplings, a picture that will never leave me.
 I suppose at one time in my life I might have had any number of stories,
 but now there is no other. This is the only story I will ever be able to tell.
BOOK I
CHAPTER
 1
 DOES SUCH a thing as “the fatal flaw,” that showy dark crack running down
 the middle of a life, exist outside literature? I used to think it didn’t. Now I
 think it does. And I think that mine is this: a morbid longing for the
 picturesque at all costs.
 A moi. L’histoire d’une de mes folies.
 My name is Richard Papen. I am twenty-eight years old and I had never
 seen New England or Hampden College until I was nineteen. I am a
 Californian by birth and also, I have recently discovered, by nature. The last
 is something I admit only now, after the fact. Not that it matters.
 I grew up in Plano, a small silicon village in the north. No sisters, no
 brothers. My father ran a gas station and my mother stayed at home until I
 got older and times got tighter and she went to work, answering phones in
 the office of one of the big chip factories outside San Jose.
 Plano. The word conjures up drive-ins, tract homes, waves of heat rising
 from the blacktop. My years there created for me an expendable past,
 disposable as a plastic cup. Which I suppose was a very great gift, in a way.
 On leaving home I was able to fabricate a new and far more satisfying
 history, full of striking, simplistic environmental influences; a colorful past,
 easily accessible to strangers.
 The dazzle of this fictive childhood—full of swimming pools and orange
 groves and dissolute, charming show-biz parents—has all but eclipsed the
 drab original. In fact, when I think about my real childhood I am unable to
 recall much about it at all except a sad jumble of objects: the sneakers I
 wore year-round; coloring books and comics from the supermarket and the
 squashed old football I contributed to neighborhood games; little of interest,
 less of beauty. I was quiet, tall for my age, prone to freckles. I didn’t have
many friends but whether this was due to choice or circumstance I do not
 now know. I did well in school, it seems, but not exceptionally well; I liked
 to read—Tom Swift, the Tolkien books—but also to watch television, which
 I did plenty of, lying on the carpet of our empty living room in the long dull
 afternoons after school.
 I honestly can’t remember much else about those years except a certain
 mood that permeated most of them, a melancholy feeling that I associate
 with watching “The Wonderful World of Disney” on Sunday nights. Sunday
 was a sad day—early to bed, school the next morning, I was constantly
 worried my homework was wrong—but as I watched the fireworks go off in
 the night sky, over the floodlit castles of Disneyland, I was consumed by a
 more general sense of dread, of imprisonment within the dreary round of
 school and home: circumstances which, to me at least, presented sound
 empirical argument for gloom. My father was mean, and our house ugly,
 and my mother didn’t pay much attention to me; my clothes were cheap and
 my haircut too short and no one at school seemed to like me that much; and
 since all this had been true for as long as I could remember, I felt things
 would doubtless continue in this depressing vein as far as I could foresee. In
 short: I felt my existence was tainted, in some subtle but essential way.
 I suppose it’s not odd, then, that I have trouble reconciling my life to
 those of my friends, or at least to their lives as I perceive them to be.
 Charles and Camilla are orphans (how I longed to be an orphan when I was
 a child!) reared by grandmothers and great-aunts in a house in Virginia: a
 childhood I like to think about, with horses and rivers and sweet-gum trees.
 And Francis. His mother, when she had him, was only seventeen—a thin
blooded, capricious girl with red hair and a rich daddy, who ran off with the
 drummer for Vance Vane and his Musical Swains. She was home in three
 weeks, and the marriage was annulled in six; and, as Francis is fond of
 saying, the grandparents brought them up like brother and sister, him and
 his mother, brought them up in such a magnanimous style that even the
 gossips were impressed—English nannies and private schools, summers in
 Switzerland, winters in France. Consider even bluff old Bunny, if you
 would. Not a childhood of reefer coats and dancing lessons, any more than
 mine was. But an American childhood. Son of a Clemson football star
 turned banker. Four brothers, no sisters, in a big noisy house in the suburbs,
 with sailboats and tennis rackets and golden retrievers; summers on Cape
Cod, boarding schools near Boston and tailgate picnics during football
 season; an upbringing vitally present in Bunny in every respect, from the
 way he shook your hand to the way he told a joke.
 I do not now nor did I ever have anything in common with any of them,
 nothing except a knowledge of Greek and the year of my life I spent in their
 company. And if love is a thing held in common, I suppose we had that in
 common, too, though I realize that might sound odd in light of the story I
 am about to tell.
 How to begin.
 After high school I went to a small college in my home town (my parents
 were opposed, as it had been made very plain that I was expected to help
 my father run his business, one of the many reasons I was in such an agony
 to escape) and, during my two years there, I studied ancient Greek. This
 was due to no love for the language but because I was majoring in pre-med
 (money, you see, was the only way to improve my fortunes, doctors make a
 lot of money, quod erat demonstrandum) and my counselor had suggested I
 take a language to fulfill the humanities requirement; and, since the Greek
 classes happened to meet in the afternoon, I took Greek so I could sleep late
 on Mondays. It was an entirely random decision which, as you will see,
 turned out to be quite fateful.
 I did well at Greek, excelled in it, and I even won an award from the
 Classics department my last year. It was my favorite class because it was
 the only one held in a regular classroom—no jars of cow hearts, no smell of
 formaldehyde, no cages full of screaming monkeys. Initially I had thought
 with hard work I could overcome a fundamental squeamishness and distaste
 for my subject, that perhaps with even harder work I could simulate
 something like a talent for it. But this was not the case. As the months went
 by I remained uninterested, if not downright sickened, by my study of
 biology; my grades were poor; I was held in contempt by teacher and
 classmate alike. In what seemed even to me a doomed and Pyrrhic gesture, I
 switched to English literature without telling my parents. I felt that I was
 cutting my own throat by this, that I would certainly be very sorry, being
 still convinced that it was better to fail in a lucrative field than to thrive in
 one that my father (who knew nothing of either finance or academia) had
 assured me was most unprofitable; one which would inevitably result in my
hanging around the house for the rest of my life asking him for money;
 money which, he assured me forcefully, he had no intention of giving me.
 So I studied literature and liked it better. But I didn’t like home any
 better. I don’t think I can explain the despair my surroundings inspired in
 me. Though I now suspect, given the circumstances and my disposition, I
 would’ve been unhappy anywhere, in Biarritz or Caracas or the Isle of
 Capri, I was then convinced that my unhappiness was indigenous to that
 place. Perhaps a part of it was. While to a certain extent Milton is right—the
 mind is its own place and in itself can make a Heaven of Hell and so forth
 —it is nonetheless clear that Plano was modeled less on Paradise than that
 other, more dolorous city. In high school I developed a habit of wandering
 through shopping malls after school, swaying through the bright, chill
 mezzanines until I was so dazed with consumer goods and product codes,
 with promenades and escalators, with mirrors and Muzak and noise and
 light, that a fuse would blow in my brain and all at once everything would
 become unintelligible: color without form, a babble of detached molecules.
 Then I would walk like a zombie to the parking lot and drive to the baseball
 field, where I wouldn’t even get out of the car, just sit with my hands on the
 steering wheel and stare at the Cyclone fence and the yellowed winter grass
 until the sun went down and it was too dark for me to see.
 Though I had a confused idea that my dissatisfaction was bohemian,
 vaguely Marxist in origin (when I was a teenager I made a fatuous show of
 socialism, mainly to irritate my father), I couldn’t really begin to understand
 it; and I would have been angry if someone had suggested that it was due to
 a strong Puritan streak in my nature, which was in fact the case. Not long
 ago I found this passage in an old notebook, written when I was eighteen or
 so: “There is to me about this place a smell of rot, the smell of rot that ripe
 fruit makes. Nowhere, ever, have the hideous mechanics of birth and
 copulation and death—those monstrous upheavals of life that the Greeks
 call miasma, defilement—been so brutal or been painted up to look so
 pretty; have so many people put so much faith in lies and mutability and
 death death death.”
 This, I think, is pretty rough stuff. From the sound of it, had I stayed in
 California I might have ended up in a cult or at the very least practicing
 some weird dietary restriction. I remember reading about Pythagoras
 around this time, and finding some of his ideas curiously appealing—
wearing white garments, for instance, or abstaining from foods which have
 a soul.